# CS340
Client Server Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the 
dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable by first reviewing what the primary functions and requisites are of the program.  Once they are figured out I 
then attempt to alter or tweak them so the functionality becomes less specific but more general.  In doing so it helps to make sure that the function can be edited and adapted 
later.I also ensure to comment what it does as well as attempt to comment specific lines so me or someone else in the future can make changes much smoother and easier should 
they be necesarry.  By working in such a manner ensure that future uses of the program can be adapted as the user or organization changes how they decide to do things.  Likewise 
in could potentially allow the program to be adpated easily for another user, company, or purpose as well.  In the future I can see utilizing the CRUD module created in any type 
of database structured program I create.  Granted it is bare bones, but it offers a very good starting point for developing something akin to an SIS system or asset database.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach 
to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I choose to approach the problems before me in a logical and methodical manner which all starts with preparatory work.  Analyze the document supplied by the client or project
manager and work it out on paper first.  This allows me to isolate the desired and required functionality I need to build into the application as well as begin to list items
and features in columns like required, needed, nice to have, etc.  This method then allows me to focus on features one at a time which helps with organization and time 
management.Not to mention allowing me the focus to finish a feature and not bounce between multiple leaving things unfinished.  As such, testing and debugging become easier as 
well as it allows features to be focused in on and narrow the scope of where to identify the problem exists.  This project as opposed to other courses was approached in similar 
manners in terms of core methods of approach an organization.  I think where it differed was the preliminary steps.  This project was more open with requirements as they were 
not always explicit.  It allowed me to dive further into the needs and work on extrapolating the necesarry information needed to complete the project.  Organization and testing 
changed quite a bit mostly due to new tools. Having not used Jupyter or Javascript before through an extra amount of time in each week I needed to research documentation and 
watch videos to understand some core concepts to have everything run as necesarry.  In the future, I would probably want to incorporate more options and usability for the client 
into it.  I feelif I had another week to just make changes and edits, I could hav really expanded different filtering and sewarching functionalities as well as incporate ways to 
create, update, and delete records through the dashboard.  I think the training and understanding of MongoDB and PyMongo are the big takeaways as those can easily be utilized in 
future uses.  Thenew methods to create, implement, and interact with the database in those manners seems far easier than trying to create one from scratch with SQL. I think wehn 
it comes to creating the database for a client who needs it quick, this may be the better option.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

I think computer scientists look at how tasks are being performed and then find ways to merge, simplify, and/or automate those tasks for the end users.  This matters because 
it serves a purpose of pushing boundaries and perceptions on how things are done, increases efficiency and productivity, and can save time and money for the client.  Each time a 
new method is found it also illustartes new ways we can continue to improve how things are done.  My work on a project like this can certainly help companies.  I think of how my 
present workplace does data work and has numerous people involved all working out of a million excel spreadsheets.  I think I may try to implement some of what I learned in this 
course to try and simplify that work and those processes so they run faster and more seamlessly than the manner they do things now.  In turn, it will allow the employees to have 
more time to focus on all the other tasks they need to accomplish throughout the day.
